# Project Guideline

<!-- 1.  Proposal

    By the end of the 3th week, submit a project proposal (1-2 page)
    that explains what you want to do and what you expect to learn from
    the project (i.e., why is it interesting to you?).

    In addition, include:

    1.  A survey of the work in selected topic (e.g., read 3 papers
        thoroughly and 3 other papers superficially).
    2.  A work schedule. Make sure to budget time for writing a short
        project paper describing the project described below.

2.  Report

    Submit a project report (5-7 pages) during dead week (**11:59 PM
    Sunday**).

    You will write the report as if you were submitting to a conference
    such as PLDI or FSE (e.g., using LaTeX templates for these
    conferences and including all the usual sections such as
    Introduction, Body, Related Work, Conclusion). Turn in the complete
    PDF as well as your LaTeX source. -->


## Components
Your project will consist of **two parts** (i) a survey of the work in some
area related to program verification and (ii) a research part that
involves creating something new.

### Survey

In this part, you will pick an area and a problem that you are
interested in. Read at least **three papers** thoroughly and at least
**three other** papers "superficially". I can provide some paper
suggestions but you should do most of the work in tracking the relevant
papers.

Write about what you have learned. It should answer the following
questions:

1.  What are the basic problems?

-   What are the basic approaches to solving them?
-   What are the main achievements to date?
-   What are the open problems?
-   What further research or experiments do you propose in this area?
    Why?

Keep the scope narrow enough so that you can learn something well and
write something interesting.

### Implementation

In this part, you will propose and work on technique to solve the
problem you picked. The technique can be either a new one or an
improved/extended version of an existing one. This part is more
time-consuming because it requires some implementation and experimentation.
You can use any language (e.g., C/C++, Java, Python) for your implementation.

## What to submit

### Project Proposal

By the end of the 4th week, submit a **project proposal** (one to two
pages). The proposal should explain what you expect to learn from the
project (i.e., why is it interesting to you?) and should include a work
schedule. Make sure to budget time for writing a short project paper (5
pages) describing the project and/or for preparing a short (10 minute)
project presentation during the last week of classes. The purpose of the
proposal is for me to give you feedback on its feasibility.

****Scale of the project****: 20-30 should suffice (so if you actually
put in about 2 hours a week, you would end up with pretty good project).
But don't attempt to do everything in "one long weekend", it will not
work.

You are welcome to tackle a more ambitious project. Such a project
should have "stages" so that you have something to show at the end of
the semester. I (or your advisor) can provide extra guidance on such
projects.

If you have a great idea and need help, feel free to work as a pair.
However, given the scope of most projects, I think they are better done
alone. Notably, the grading for a two-person project will actually
require "twice as much work" rather than the standard "1.5-times as
much work".


### Project Report

You will write your project report as if you were submitting to a
conference such as PLDI or ICSE (e.g., using LaTex templates for these
conferences). Turn in the complete 5-page PDF as well as your LaTeX
source.

### Status Update

The Status Update is a short email (less than a page) that explains what
you have done so far and what you plan to do next.. It is due at the end
of every month after your proposal is approved. This allows me to help
if you are stuck.

### Presentation

You will give a short presentation of your project (10 minutes total for
the presentation, and 3 for questions) and should describe what the
problem was, what the difficulties were and what was accomplished or
learned. You will find it much easier to prepare the talk using slides
(6 to 8 slides excluding the title, depending on your speed).

While preparing the talk keep in mind who your audience is. You will be
presenting to colleagues who are eager to find out (1) about new
exciting facets of programming languages and (2) how much fun you had.
Plan to motivate the project (i.e., why is this important?) and to
describe what you learned from it. Keep in mind that your colleagues
have not read all the papers that you have read to do the project.

## Project Ideas

I encourage you to define your own project (you can also use your current research project with your own advisor, **as long as it involves program analysis**). In case you do not have any ideas, talk to me.
